[Music]
hey hey are you looking for a creative
way to impress your friends with your
skills here's an idea I'm going to show
you the way to solve a 2x2 Rubik's Cube
that works 100% of the time first things
first let's study the Rubik's Cube lingo
it's all simple and logical our turn the
right face of the cube clockwise 90
degrees
our ' turn the right face
counterclockwise 90 degrees L left face
clockwise L ' left face counterclockwise
u upper face clockwise you apostrophe
upper face counterclockwise F turn the
front face clockwise F ' turn the front
face counterclockwise D down face goes
clockwise D ' down face goes you got it
counterclockwise be back face clockwise
B ' back face counterclockwise so as you
can see each capital letter stands for a
face of the cube that turns clockwise
where there is an apostrophe it means
you should go counterclockwise 90
degrees we're going to use eight basic
moves to solve a 2 by 2 cube the cube
will rotate clockwise if you look at it
from the right face side this mark with
an X
[Music]
one the right finger trip it just takes
four moves and helps us solve most of
the cube turn the right face of the cube
clockwise 90 degrees upper face
clockwise the right face
counterclockwise and upper face
counterclockwise easy right let's see
how it looks on a real cube turn the
right face of the cube clockwise upper
face clockwise now right face goes
counterclockwise and upper face
counterclockwise let's do it again
right clockwise upper clockwise right
counterclockwise and upper
counterclockwise once again right upper
right upper and the fourth time I think
I mastered it
number two the left finger trip this is
a mirror reflection of the previous
algorithm and it's also done in four
moves the left face goes
counterclockwise upper fakes
counterclockwise left face clockwise
upper face clockwise that's the
algorithm let's see how it works on a
real cube
so you turn the left face
counterclockwise upper face
counterclockwise left face clockwise and
then upper face clockwise and once again
left upper left upper keep going one
more time left counterclockwise upper
face counterclockwise left face
clockwise upper face clockwise number-3
corner rotation just like the previous
two algorithms this one is done in four
moves first you turn the right face
clockwise and then the front face
counterclockwise then right face goes
counterclockwise and finally the front
face turns clockwise let's try it right
front right front one more time right
front right front and again clockwise
counterclockwise counterclockwise
clockwise and one final move there you
go now it's time to solve that queue
what shall we begin with it takes three
stages one first will solve the bottom
layer two then we'll solve the top layer
three finally we'll swap the corners one
solving the bottom layer first let's
find the right corner it's usually
marked with a sticker and is white blue
and red
we'll start with it let's see which
corner it will be easiest to put next to
it is it going to be blue and white or
red and white
I see it's red and white let's put it
where it belongs and use the first
finger trick on it until it's in the
right place with white facing down okay
let's do the same with the remaining
white corners trust me the more you
practice the easier it gets
one more time done the bottom layer is
solved to solving the top layer let's
find the corner that matches in two
colors with the bottom layer that's
already solved and put it in the right
place once you find the first corner you
have to keep looking for the second one
without relocating the first corner
here two cases are possible the two
corners can be next to each other or a
place diagonally one if two corners are
next to each other take the cube in your
left hand holding the two matching
corners and to the right finger trick
three times do you remember how to do it
it's bright face clockwise upper face
clockwise the right face
counterclockwise and upper face
counterclockwise once again there you go
one more time now turn the entire cube
clockwise and do the left finger trick
three times left face goes
counterclockwise upper face
counterclockwise left counterclockwise
upper face clockwise once again and the
final mode in case you've done it right
all the corners will be in place
- if two corners are in a diagonal in
this case it doesn't matter how you hold
the cube but the white side has to face
down now let's do the same as for
neighbouring corners so it's the are you
are ' you ' 3 times turn the cube
clockwise and new the L ' you apostrophe
L you be moved three times now let's
find the corners that are next to each
other and we have the same setting as in
the first case
[Music]
three swapping the corners now all you
have to do is swap all the corners
yellow side up grab the cube
white side down and let's keep swapping
the corners until the yellow part of the
rotating corner is up without rotating
the cube itself keep turning the upper
side towards the corner that's not in
place and keep using the algorithm it
might seem like you're messing it up but
no worries once you finish with the last
corner yellow side up it will be all
done Congrats you've successfully solved
the 2x2 rubik's cube with just three
algorithms so did you solve it no
problem let me know in the comments
below
ready to move on to a larger cube a 3x3
rubik's cube has the same lingo as the
2x2 there will be eight basic moves six
algorithms and seven stages number one
white cross number two white corners
number three the middle layer number
four the yellow cross number five the
yellow edges number six the yellow
corners number seven the final state
[Music]
number one the white cross there are no
algorithm solving the white cross you
just have to go with your intuition and
rotate the side layers to get there this
is the very first and the easiest stage
of solving the cube you can check if the
edges are in the correct position using
the central elements of the cube try to
keep the cube white side down it'll make
things easier in the next stages
[Music]
number two white corners you can put the
corners of a 3x3 cube into place using
the same algorithms as for the 2x2 one
if the white part of the corner is
facing right use the first finger trick
if it's facing you then go with the
second one if the white part is facing
up
try using any of the algorithms until
it's in the right place let's try it on
a real cube take the corner that you
want to put in the right place and move
it so it's above the desired position to
check it you can rotate the right or a
frontal phase so that the corner falls
into place and then put it back up and
use one of the algorithms depending on
where the white part is
number three the middle layer you're
going to need two algorithms to solve
this one the right and the left center
rotation because you are a pro with all
the algorithms already this should be no
big deal let's see how it works the task
is to put the four edges of the middle
layer in the right place let's find the
element that must be moved to the middle
layer and align the colors with the
center of the middle layer use the right
or left algorithm depending on the
situation if the edge you need is in the
middle layer but not in its place just
use any of the algorithms to knock it
out of there number four the yellow
cross for the yellow cross you are only
going to need one algorithm if it
doesn't work out the first time keep
trying until you get the yellow cross
there you go
let's see how it works front face
clockwise right face clockwise upper
face clockwise right face
counterclockwise upper face
counterclockwise and front face
clockwise
[Music]
number five the yellow edges here's an
algorithm that shifts the two central
edges of the upper layer that are in a
diagonal line there is a number two next
to you in the algorithm here it means
you should turn it twice it might look
confusing but it's easier done and said
how often does that happen let's align
the central edges of the top layer with
the cube centers at least two colors
have to match if the two colors are next
to each other only use the algorithm
once if they are opposite each other use
the algorithm twice if four colors are
matching Congrats you can skip this
state number six the yellow corners if
you're getting tired no worries you're
almost there
to put the corners in the right places
we're going to use the corner swapping
algorithms that moves three corners
clockwise enough set let me show you how
it works
[Music]
right face counterclockwise front face
counterclockwise left face
counterclockwise front face clockwise
right face clockwise front face
counterclockwise left face clockwise
front face clockwise using this
algorithm you can get the corners in the
right positions in any situation keep
going as many times as you have to until
you make it
[Music]
number seven final stage are you still
there we're at the finish line now you
have to swap corners yellow side up just
like in a two-by-two queue the algorithm
is simple you've got to keep going until
the yellow part is on top without
changing the cubes position turn the
upper layer moving the next corner you
want to get in place eventually it'll
all be done let's try it on a real cute
[Music]
right face counterclockwise front face
counterclockwise right face
counterclockwise front face clockwise if
it seems like you're only making a worse
don't worry it's just an illusion kind
of like me
keep using the algorithm until it works
once again and again
[Music]
and congratulations you've made it hey
if you learn something new today then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life